When multiplying fractions, there is no requirement for a common denominator.
To multiply fractions, we just multiply straight across.
Let's look at an example. What is two fifths times three sevenths?
To multiply fractions, we multiply the numerators together and the denominators together.
Simplifying the top and bottom, our single fraction is six over thirty-five.
Let's look at another example. What is x minus three over x minus six times x minus one over x plus six? Note that the 3 and 6 do not cancel in the first fraction. In fact none of the x's cancel in any fraction either.
As a reminder, for multiplying fractions, there is no need for a common denominator.
To multiply these fractions, we multiply the numerators together and the denominators together. The previous example was fractions with numbers only. We *still* apply this process for fractions with variables.
Simplifying the top and bottom, we get x squared minus 4 x plus 3 over x squared plus 6 x minus 6 x minus 36.
On bottom, the 6 x and negative 6x undo each other. We're left with x squared minus 4 x plus 3 over x squared minus 36.
Let's look at another example. What is x minus 5 over x squared minus 100 plus two over x minus 10?
To simplify adding fractions, we need a common denominator, just like we would if we had fractions without variables. Our work becomes easier if we first notice that the first denominator factors as x plus 10 times x minus 10.
Let's rewrite it like this.
Then, we can leave the first fraction alone. For the second fraction, multiply the top and bottom by x plus 10.
As we do this, the second fraction needs the original x minus 10 in parentheses. Without parentheses, the Order of Operations says something else.
Now that we have a common denominator, we can combine the two fractions into one. The numerator is x minus 5 plus 2 times the quantity x plus 10. The denominator is x plus 10 times x minus 10.
Distribute the 2 in the numerator. The denominator is x squared minus 100.
We end with 3 x plus 15 over x squared minus 100. No further cancellations are possible because the last operations on top and bottom are plus and minus, not times.
Let's look at another example. What is x minus 5 over x squared minus 100 divided by two over x minus 10?
Leave the first fraction alone, and reciprocate the second fraction at the *same* time that we change the division sign into multiplication.
Since we are now multiplying fractions, multiply straight across, with no need for a common denominator. 
We have the quantity x minus 5 times the quantity x minus 10 on top, and the quantity x squared minus 100, close parentheses, times 2 on bottom. *All* parentheses here are needed due to order of operations.
Expanding everywhere is an option, but that takes us further from a factored form. Instead, we factor the x squared minus 100 on bottom as x plus 10 times x minus 10. Now, everything is a factor, so any common factor on top and bottom will cancel.
Cancelling the common factor of x minus 10 on top and bottom, we are left with x minus 5 over 2 times the quantity x plus 10. Since nothing further will cancel, it would be fine to leave the denominator like this or to expand by distributing 2.
