When adding or subtracting fractions, the two fractions that are involved need a common denominator.
When multiplying or dividing fractions, there is no requirement for a common denominator.
Let's look at an example. What is two thirds minus one half?
We will rewrite both fractions to have six in the denominator.
For the first fraction, multiply the top and the bottom by two. We haven't finshed this step, which explains the space after the minus sign.
For the second fraction, multiply the top and the bottom by three.
Simplifying each numerator and denominator separately, we have four over six minus three over six.
Now that we have the same denominator, we only subtract numerators. Since four minus three is one, our single fraction is one over six.
Let's look at another example. What is one tenth minus one sixth?
We could rewrite both fractions to have sixty in the denominator, but ten and six both have a common factor of two, so will rewrite both fractions to have thirty in the denominator.
For the first fraction, multiply the top and the bottom by three.
For the second fraction, multiply the top and the bottom by five.
Simplifying each numerator and denominator separately, we have three over thirty minus five over thirty.
Now that we have the same denominator, we only subtract numerators. Since three minus five is negative two, our single fraction is negative two over thirty.
We can simplify this fraction by cancelling a factor of two on top and bottom, leaving us with negative one over fifteen.
Let's look at another example. What is three fourteenths minus one seventh?
Since fourteen times seven is ninety-eight, we could rewrite both fractions to have ninety-eight in the denominator, but we can actually just make both fractions have fourteen in the denominator.
Copy the first fraction as is, with no changes.
For the second fraction, multiply the top and the bottom by two.
Unlike in previous examples, we didn't even change how both fractions are written. We only rewrote the second fraction.
Simplifying the second numerator and denominator separately, we have three over fourteen minus two over fourteen.
Now that we have the same denominator, we only subtract numerators. Since three minus two is one, our single fraction is one over fourteen.
